---
layout: post
title: First week in CS 373
---

Hi, and welcome to the first entry on my blog for the CS 373F Software Engineering class.

I'll start off by telling you more about myself, before I go into details on my experiences from this class.

My name is Jacob and I'm an international student from KTH, Stockholm. I'm here for the spring term, and since I'm an exchange student I was only able to take two classes in CS. I also take two classes in business to mix it up a bit.

Back in Sweden, I have a bachelor's degree in engineering physics, and made a transition towards CS by starting a master's in machine learning last fall. I have taken some introductory CS classes before and am familiar, but not fluent, in Python, Java, VBA and Matlab (and have tried out Javascript a bit). I have taken classes in machine learning and AI, but I really hope this class will be a good way for me to feel more confident in my coding skills.

I got to Austin 1/5 to make sure all was in order with my registration bars. In the end, I felt like I had a lot of free time to familiarize myself with the campus and the city. It felt good when school finally started this week!

During the week I've spent most time trying to get more comfortable using GitHub. I've tried it very briefly before, but have never really used it. That is something I know will be very valuable to me for the future, for classes as well as professionally.

The two things I feel will be the hardest for me is to learn to quickly become familiar with the different tools, and the large workload that the class seems to demand. This class is the one I will focus the most on, but I still know that as an exchange student there will be things outside of school taking up my time as well. I'm positive it will all work out well in the end, though!

Next week, and this weekend, I'll start with the actual coding of the first project.

In general, I like the style of the lectures where the main focus is on discussion about the code. This is a bit different from the other CS classes I've taken, and I feel like the format could help me understand and reflect on code in a better way.

My first tip-of-the-week is the app "Focus Keeper" (available on iOS - definitely several alternatives available for Android as well). It's a great "pomodoro technique" (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pomodoro_Technique) tool for managing your focus time more effectively, if you feel like you drift off thinking about or doing things irrelevant to what you're supposed to do.
